		localdir ----ADD---- staged -----commit---- repo

1.git branch
List all branches for the repository

2. git checkout
	a: When used for branching, it will switch to another branch
	b: When used for tag, it will switch to that version and shows content

3. git merge
Merges specified branch changes to branch in which we are currently working

4.
 git ignore
.ignore file is used when we don't want any file to be added on git. Like sensitive keys file.

5.
git push
push the commits to hosting site.

6.
git stash
Any uncommited but staged files info will be saved while switching to another branch. With "git stash apply", we can retrieve it back.

7.
git head
Shows head position of current branch.

8.
git pull
It pulls remote server changes to specified branch. Syntax is git pull servername branchname.

9.
git remote
It's used whenever any remote server interaction happens. 
	a: git remote -v to list out remote server locations
	b: git remote add servername URL : Specifies which server URL we want to interact
	c: git pull and remove are other options we have
10.
git revert
Any committed changes can be reverted back to previous one by specifying previous head-id.

11.
git tag
We can tag a particular point in branch by assigning versions. Later we can go to any tag and can see that version file's status.

12.
git mv current_name final_name
This command renames file name both in git and local folder.

13.
git init
Initializes any folder as git folder. Adds some hidden files which tracks every changes happened in this local repo.

14.
git add
Adds files from local folder to staging area.

15.
git commit
Commits all changes uploaded from staging area to repo which can finally be pushed to hosting site.

16.
git clone
Clones specified repo present in given URL to your local system. Any chnges to cloned folder then can be used like normal git folders.

17.
git restore
Moves files which are still present in staging area back to local folder.

18.
git diff
Tells difference between local folder files and committed repository.

19.
git log 
It will list all commits with headposition,timestamp, comments given while committing.

20.
git status
It will show current status of files in local repo which are staged but uncommitted, or not tracked, or need to be staged(due to modification or new file).

21.
Environment setup
A one time setup to hosting site account where you want to save repo. Itr can be made as global or local change
To setup username: git config --global user.name "user_name"
To setup email: git config --global user.email "email_id"

22.
Local repo: Repository which is local to your system. We can make any repo as git local repo by git init. But this one is good for single user.
Centralized repo: Works with multiple users(Good for collaboration) where every data is stored at single site. It's to manage but faces single point of failure problem.
Distributed repo: It removes drawback of centralized repo but have it's own problem like syncing. Repo can be maintained at local repo and metadata like no. of files, timestamp, etc 
can be saved at server. It's scalable and more secure as backup point of view.

23, 24.
VCS: Version control system is used for tracking every development of software and maintain every version in proper way without disturbing main working version.
Git VCS feature:
a) Traceability: Repositories can be traced for any modification and helps out to point out problems from where it started propagating.
b) Distributed
c) Scalable: Can accommodate sudden spike/ decrease in users effectively and also can manage resource allocation effectively according to need/demand.
d) Secured
e) Fast: Due to implemented data structure makes it fast.

25.
Index file is a hidden file automatically created after git init. It maintains some internal data structure to track changes in local git folder.
Modified files storage?? May be using some tree/graph data structure. 

